Joe Dolson: Welcome
to WordPress Accessibility Day 2025.
I'm Joe Dolson, a lead organizer
of WordPress Accessibility Day
and a board member
of the WP Accessibility Day
non-profit organization
along with Bet Hannon
and Amber Hinds.
I'm also a member
of the WordPress Accessibility Team
and a core committer
on the WordPress Open Source Project.
This is
our fifth WordPress Accessibility Day
and we're pretty excited
about what's coming up.
It's truly amazing to see
how much this event has changed
since the WordPress Accessibility Team
founded it in 2020.
We've got 28 speakers this year
with 28 unique perspectives
on the user experience for people
with disabilities on the web.
Our speakers represent 11 countries
and 10 time zones making this event
truly global.
A quarter of our speakers self-identify
as living with a disability.
This year's sessions cover
an enormous range of topics from coping
with irregular
and unpredictable bandwidth,
to developing with continuous testing,
to the accessibility of physical events.
There are topics at every level
and we hope you're all able to take
something with you from this event
that you can apply
in your everyday work on or off the web.
As of this moment,
we have 2,097 attendees
registered to attend.
That's an incredible response
and we're amazed by your excitement
about WordPress and accessibility.
This event wouldn't be possible
without our amazing team of organizers
and the generous support of our sponsors.
This year's organizing team
included almost 30 people
and there are
about an additional 30 volunteers
helping out today to make
this event run smoothly.
I'd be remiss if I didn't make
a point of thanking our team leads.
Bet Hannon, sponsors and finance,
Adrian Grace, volunteers team,
Isla Waite, technology and vendors,
June Liu and Michelle Frechette,
marketing,
Joni Halabi, translations,
Ricky Blacker, post-event issues,
Ricky Onsman,
Asia Pacific liaison,
and Ryan Bracey, speakers,
and Amber Hinds,
who isn't leading a specific team
for the first time
but whose organizational skill is
the key to making this whole thing work.
We announced our translation project
during last year's event
and at that time we had
30 translations either completed
or in progress.
Joni has done a fabulous job
keeping this program rolling
and as of today we have 77 completed
translations and another 34 in progress.
If you're interested
in contributing to translations,
sign up
at https://wpaccessibility.day/translate.
Our sponsors make sure that we can afford
to provide quality captioning,
American Sign Language interpretation,
pay our speakers,
and cover
the costs of all the technical aspects
that make this event accessible.
I'd like to personally thank
our Platinum sponsors,
Gravity Forms, Woo, and WP Engine.
Please check out their sponsor pages
on the WordPress Accessibility Day website
at 2025.wpaccessibility.day/sponsors
to learn more about their offerings
and see what deals
they're offering attendees.
I'd also like to thank
our Gold sponsors, A11y by Elementor,
Equalize Digital, GoDaddy, GreenGeeks,
and Yoast.
Your efforts to promote
accessibility are critical
to everything we've accomplished.
We can't forget our Silver
and Bronze sponsors.
A big thank you
to our Silver sponsors,
AAArdvark,
CodeGeek, Kinetic Iris, Kinsta, Pressable,
and Second Melody,
and our 15 Bronze sponsors.
All of our sponsors
are represented on the website
at 2025.wpaccessibility.day/sponsors.
Please check them out.
I'd also like to throw a shout out
to our growing community of micro-sponsors
and donors.
You are helping to make
this event sustainable.
Thank you for your generosity.
Our goal is not only to have
an event about accessibility.
It's to include people with disabilities
everywhere in the process.
A key mantra of the disability
rights movement
is about decision-making.
Nothing about us without us.
I don't identify as a person
with a disability,
and I may be about as far as you can get
in terms of privilege as a white man
in my late 40s without a disability.
Including people with disabilities
requires intention.
We're fortunate that many of our speakers
are also people with disabilities,
but that good fortune is
the result of hard work to make sure
that we're using inclusive platforms
and communicating effectively
at every point in the process.
One thing we want
to do is always focus on improving.
Please, don't hesitate to give us feedback
about anything you think
we could have done better.
We're all here to learn.
There's a feedback form linked
in the navigation menu on the website,
and it will stay open
for one week following the event.
Let's move forward and get this event
started so we can all take another step
in our learning process
towards better inclusivity.
In a few minutes,
we'll introduce
our amazing keynote speaker,
Vitaly Friedman.
In the meantime,
make yourself comfortable and get
ready for 24 hours of learning.
Thank you for attending
WordPress Accessibility Day 2025.